Studded with four motion-tracking cameras and crammed with the retail giant's membership perks, Amazon's 4.7-inch Fire Phone strides into the hypercompetitive smartphone arena armed with industry firsts, including 3D-like Dynamic Perspective visuals, an integrated "Firefly" scanning button, and a real-time Mayday help desk. Amazon is sweetening the deal -- for a limited time -- with a free year of Amazon Prime for both new and current subscribers. For the most part, these bells and whistles work as advertised, delivering some notable features you won't find on other smartphones.


What doesn't work is the premium retail price, the so-so performance, and the slightly sub-prime specs. The $200 on-contract price with US carrier AT&T has already dropped to $1 since the phone's debut (it's still $650 off-contract), and the phone costs £33 or £48 on-contract in the UK through O2. (There's no Australian pricing or availability yet.) The quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 processor struggles to respond, battery life sputters out quicker than I'd like, and the phone also throws off enough heat to melt a pat of butter. Also, as the Fire Phone (like Amazon's tablets) uses a heavily modified version of Android, the limited app store blocks Google Play services. That last issue will be a deal-breaker for many, because you you won't be able to access popular services like Google Now and Google Maps that you'd find with a "true" Android phone (or an iPhone).


The Fire Phone is daring, aspirational, and pleasing to use. But you need to be all-in on the Amazon ecosystem to fully appreciate it, and even then, it's not delivering a lot of Amazon features that you can't get on rival products. When the Fire Phone eventually gets its inevitable markdown -- say, $99 or less on contract -- and Amazon delivers more must-have apps to its app store, the Fire Phone may be more recommendable beyond hard-core Prime addicts. In the meantime, fervent Android fans (and anyone else looking for the best deal) are better off with an LG G3 , Samsung Galaxy S5 , or HTC One M8 .