I have owned the Apple Watch Sport since April 24th (little over two weeks for this review) and I absolutely love it.
Note: I touch on the differences between the Apple Watch Sport and the Apple Watch at the bottom of this review.


The question that I seem to hear is "what's the point? I already have an iPhone that can do everything the Watch can do." Yes, it can, but the Watch is not made to replace your iPhone, it is meant to compliment it. The idea is to ease the interactions with your phone and potentially make you use your phone less (yes, it may be paradoxical to have another piece of technology to get you to use other technology less.)
Note: I have found myself using my phone less.


The Apple Watch is there to connect you to the digital world in a more seamless manner. I value my time and while it may sound lazy (or even dumb) checking a text message on your watch is incredibly convenient. I get "tapped" on my wrist, decide if a notification is worth my attention in that moment, glance at my watch, see whatever notification it was, and I go from there. I no longer check my phone for notifications, or leave it out at lunch, if it's important I know it'll go to my Watch and I know I can check it at a glance.


Apple's built in features work great. I have used voice dictation to respond to texts multiple times and no (major) mistakes have been made. Apple Pay has yet to failed on me and swiping my wrist to pay is very convenient. Controlling music from your watch, or even putting music on the watch for a run works great (2GB of memory can be used for music).


I have never used a fitness tracker so I cannot compare an Apple Watch to something such as a Fitbit, but the fitness tracking has worked well for me. It's nice having access to the information like how much you've walked, or calories burned on a device that looks nice and not like a fitness tracker.


The battery life has been better than expected and after a day of normal use I am often in the 40-50% range. The watch is very light and has a good weight on my wrist. I know it is there, but it doesn't bother me at all. It is very water resistant (I've ran it under the sink and there are videos of people submerging them) and scratch resistant. I have no worries about using the watch in my every day life and I do not take it off while hiking/playing basketball/whatever. I am very happy with choosing the 38MM version of the 42MM version. I find the 42MM version looks more like a giant screen on your wrist and is not at all subtle; the 38MM on the other hand sits nicely, is big enough to use, but does not look bulky. Also, I purchased the Apple Watch (not the sport) for my mom and I do like the look of that version more. While I would not buy it due to the easily scratch-able steel, it looks more like a nicer piece of jewelry (not that the sport doesn't, but it's just nicer).


Watch faces are rather sub-par right now and your selection is quite limited. I use the modular face, but hopefully Apple will open up the API for developers to create third party watch faces later this year. Third party apps are also currently lacking and they often load very slow. This is likely due to them currently being held on your phone and being sent to your watch via bluetooth. Once apps are able to be stored on your watch, it is likely they will run faster (note: referring to third party apps, apps built on the watch run seamlessly).


Some Points:
- The watch is definitely not needed, but it is a nice accessory for your iPhone
- Apple's built in functions work flawlessly
- The watch is still a watch, do not expect it to be able to do everything a phone can
- Fitness functionality works well.
- The battery life is great. I use it moderately and I have yet to have it drop below 40% on a full day
- Is very life resistant (water/scratch/so forth)
- Third party is lacking (watch faces & apps).


All in all, I like the design of it and I like the features it brings alongside your typical watch. It is definitely not a needed accessory, but I am happy with my purchase and would suggest it to someone that likes the design and would like some extra features to their typical watch.


Differences between Apple Watch Sport and the Apple Watch:
The actual functionality of the watches are identical and the differences come down to the screen and casing used.
The Apple Watch Sport's screen is made out of Ion X glass (is around a 7-7.5 on Mor's Scale of Hardness).
The Apple Watch's screen is made out of Sapphire (around an 8 on Mor's Scale of Hardness).


What's that mean? Sapphire is the second hardest clear material only second to diamond and it is practically impossible to scratch in everyday activity. The Sport version is slightly easier to scratch, but due to the material differences it weighs less.


As for the casing, the Apple Watch is made out of Stainless Steel and the Sport is made out of Aluminum. I think the stainless steel version looks nicer and more like a piece of jewelry, but that metal is also easier to scratch (opposed to aluminum.) The differences are minute and it's whether you would like to justify the extra $200 for a prettier case and a slightly harder screen. If I was focused heavier on the Watch aesthetics, I would purchase the Apple Watch. If I want a good looking watch that I do not feel pressured to take off when I do sports and the like (which I do), I would choose the sport (which I did).


http://www.amazon.com/Apple-Watch-Sport-Aluminum-42mm/dp/B00WUKULAC/ref=sr_1_1?s=electronics&ie=UTF8&qid=1458990157&sr=1-1&keywords=apple+watch

This passage is summarized well by my naive summarizer! In the beginning, there is a sentence that says, "I'll list the differences at the bottom of this review." and at the end, there is actually a difference given in the summary!