One month use. For the price you really can't go wrong. A 1080p screen (by the way it has poor viewing angles), full size chiclet keyboard with a numeric keypad, mediocre build quality, and an above average processing power. Now my typical usage is surf the internet, watch videos, listen to music (the speakers are kind of bad), work on documents, and check email. Now what I do on this laptop may vary from person to person, but I believe it's comparable to the majority of average laptop users.


So the Pros: a large 15.6 screen that is an ok 1080p resolution (now for those who are having issues with the clarity with the screen, just downscale to 100% and you'll be ok). The colors on this screen is a bit warm and washed out, but what can you expect from this price point. Apparently this screen is not listed as a TN panel, but the horrible viewing angles would otherwise suggest that it is a TN panel. However the screen is really not that bad far and from the worst. It is a crisp/clear screen and easy on the eyes when reading. Also the brightness is fairly good and it helps that it is a matte display. Now on the specs. The core I3 on this laptop runs really well for what I use it for. I rarely see the system heat up or slow down when I'm using it. The ram is ok for me, I barely use over 3 gigabit. Also the boot up time is surprisingly quick for a system using a HDD.


Now for the Cons: The battery life is kind of short. I get anywhere from 3 to 4 hours of battery life. This may not be a con for other users, but I am a student and for me this is not an all day battery life. The DVD drive worries me. It is really flimsy and I'm afraid it might break off. The build quality is all plastic and again in this price range I can't expect much. The top lid does in fact collect smudges and fingerprint. The speakers are bottom facing and sound really bad. On high volume the sound does distort a bit and the worst part is it does not get loud at all. The speaker drivers on this laptops are really weak and bad, so invest on some really good headphones or external speakers if you want to enjoy movies or music.


Closing statement, for the price and for my usage this laptop is a really good fit. You get a really good screen, also really good processing power, and with an ok battery life. I really like this laptop a lot and coming from my old laptop I consider this Laptop an upgrade.