LONDON—The man accused of shooting and stabbing U.K. lawmaker Jo Cox appeared in court Saturday, charged with murder and giving his name as “Death to traitors, freedom for Britain.” Thomas Mair allegedly waited for Ms. Cox outside a library where she was to meet with constituents in Birstall, northern England, and set upon her with a knife before shooting her as she lay on the ground, prosecutor David Cawthorne said.


As Ms. Cox lay stricken, Mr. Mair continued his attack and was heard to shout words to the effect of “Britain first, keep Britain independent, Britain always comes first,” the prosecutor said. Mr. Mair, a 52-year-old whose home address is about a mile away from the scene of the attack, also faces counts of grievous bodily harm for attacking Bernard Carter-Kenny, a 77-year-old bystander who came to Ms. Cox’s aid; possession of a firearm with intent to commit murder; and possession of an offensive weapon, according to the indictment.


Dressed in a light gray prison-issue tracksuit, Mr. Mair, a slight, bald man with a goatee beard, listened impassively as the prosecutor recounted the details of his alleged crime to the court. The defendant, who was led handcuffed into the dock by two guards, wasn’t asked to enter a plea. His lawyer, Keith Allen, didn’t indicate to the court how his client intends to plead at trial. Mr. Allen wasn’t available for comment after the court appearance.


When asked by Judge Emma Arbuthnot to confirm his name, Mr. Mair, speaking in a soft Scottish burr, said only: “Death to traitors, freedom for Britain.” Upon hearing his reply, Judge Arbuthnot recommended that Mr. Mair be given psychiatric evaluation. The prosecutor also said in court that police recovered a single-barreled firearm from Mr. Mair when he was arrested, shortly after the attack. The prosecutor said “material of an extremist, far-right nature” was found at the defendant’s home. During his detention, Mr. Mair told police he was a “political activist,” according to the prosecutor.


The prosecutor presented details of the attack to the court. Ms. Cox had spent Thursday morning visiting a local school and a care home for the elderly, Mr. Cawthorne said. Shortly before 1 p.m., she and two colleagues made their way to Birstall library for a scheduled meeting with her constituents.


At the same time, Mr. Carter-Kenny pulled up in his car alongside the library and dropped off his wife. While he sat in the idling vehicle, he saw Ms. Cox, whom he recognized as his local member of parliament, getting out of her car. Almost as soon as Mr. Carter-Kenny noticed the lawmaker, he saw a man approach and suddenly attack her with a knife, the prosecutor said. Mr. Carter-Kenny quickly left his car and rushed to Ms. Cox’s aid. The assailant momentarily swung toward him, driving a “large knife” into Mr. Carter-Kenny’s abdomen, the prosecutor said.


A separate application for bail will be heard at the Central Criminal Court on Monday. The death of Ms. Cox, a lawmaker in the main opposition Labour Party who entered parliament in 2015 and an active pro-EU campaigner, has shocked Britain and brought a temporary halt to campaigning ahead of a planned referendum on whether the U.K. should remain a member of the European Union, throwing the issue into limbo a week before next Thursday’s vote. Official campaigning remained suspended Saturday.


Police on Friday said they believed Ms. Cox was targeted and their investigation was being assisted by specialist officers from the counterterrorism unit. While Mr. Mair hasn’t been charged with terrorism, his case summary was prepared by a prosecutor from the counterterrorism division. Mr. Mair’s alleged utterance of “Britain first” during the attack raised questions about whether he was connected to Britain First, a nationalist group that is committed to banning Islam in the U.K.


In the immediate aftermath of the attack, Britain First denied any link to Ms. Cox’s murder, which it described as an “act of despicable criminality.” A representative for the organization wasn’t immediately available Saturday. In statements on the group’s website that predate Ms. Cox’s killing, Britain First said it holds some lawmakers to blame for facilitating the immigration that they say is the root of many of the U.K.’s problems. “The only people we ‘hate’ are the white left-wing politicians and journalists who are wrecking our beautiful country,” said a page entitled “Britain First and Racism” on the group’s website.